the government did not shut down I know
bad news but today we're going to look
at something that's not only 10 times
bigger it's like a 100 times bigger
because these government shutdowns are
ultimately distractions from what's much
more important so the first thing I want
to talk about is we have countless
indicators firing off in the bond market
and these are big ones so we're going to
talk about that and what it means and
then I also want to look at invest ERS
needing to watch a few changes in these
trends that have occurred I'm going to
tell you what you as an individual as an
investor but as just an individual
person need to be looking at right now
so you can adapt so that you can Thrive
and prosper let's begin here we have it
threat of government shutdown ends as
Congress passes a temporary funding plan
oh yeah that's right we've heard this
all before the song and dance they're
going to extend it yet again in this
case 45 days they'll kick the can down
the road and on the 45th day or 44th day
they'll come to some sort of conclusion
and ultimately you will have to spend
more money than you did before wonderful
okay so we'll look at the bond market
but we're also going to look at a few
other things and here we have it
equities are competing with 5% Returns
on cash which is basically no risk they
used to say Tina right there is no
alternative
there are alternatives now for equities
and that's why we see a lot of money
that's been going into bonds as opposed
to before it would always be equities
all the way something very big has
changed inside of the bond market and of
course I need to show you that here we
have the bond market has never sounded
recession alarms for this long 10-year
yield has been below the 3month rate for
22 12 trading days unbelievable the
quote ignore the signal at your own risk
that's something that you can't really
ignore all right key treasury curve
inverts for a record period of time and
certainly we have fluctuations and
variations but when we see these records
we should definitely pay attention
because now we're getting into some very
dangerous territory ultimately yield
curve conversion uh yield curve
inversion is something that has a
extreme extremely accurate indicator of
a recession that's coming and we are now
in that period depends on which one you
look at and so on don't get involved in
all the intricacies all you need to know
is that the bond market is signaling a
recession and we should be paying
attention as a result of that easy
monetary policies for so many years
screwed up this system since the early
80s
we've had consistently falling interest
rates and during that period of time
falling interest rates we see more
borrowing more debt more expansion more
government stimulus and more actions
from the Federal Reserve including more
recently quantitative easing and now
something very different has happened
because for the first time we've had
more inflation than we've ever been used
to in all these decades so now it's
breaking the system and that's why I
want to show you
this this could be the most significant
chart of our time 30-year yields
decidedly breached a down Channel there
are a few things in this chart I need to
note first of all from 19 this is
showing us from the mid 80s up until the
present it was a downward Channel and it
was it would fluctuate But ultimately
less L and less and less yield as time
went on imagine taking on 30 year you're
you're going to invest in something
that's going to pay you back 30 years
from now and you're going to get in this
case here like
1.5% at the bottom when you looked
around the world where would you get
your yield from oh I'm going to go to
Germany oh it's at a negative oh I'm
going to go to Japan it's at a negative
well now
1.5% better than nothing so you had
these companies like svb that were going
out and buying mortgage back Securities
so that they can get some yield so that
they can get something to get more than
1.5% so that they can attract their
customers with a higher return oh give
us your money uh we know a way and we
can get you let's say 3% 4% 5% whatever
the case may be and that's the way you
attract customers in give them a higher
percentage but that means you have to
take more risk and at that time it was
super risky a lot of companies were
doing the same thing we just haven't
found out about it yet we will all right
I would like to make it clear that there
were many of your fellow YouTubers out
there that were suggesting this would
not happen you see how it broke the
channel many many many of them
were suggesting this would not occur and
yet it has so if they haven't apologized
if they haven't admitted that this was
like clearly the thesis their entire
thesis was incorrect if they haven't
acknowledged that something is very
wrong and I would say you got to um
start to challenge the other assumptions
that they've made what I have said for a
very long time time is quite simple at
some point you can read it in my book at
some point there's going to be a lot of
inflation they're going to have to bring
that down with higher interest rates in
doing so it's going to cause a problem
you're going to have an issue a
financial crisis of some
sort that's
obvious but the argument was we're never
going to have that inflation so you
don't have to worry they're never going
to increase interest rates I mean it's
Preposterous they even suggest that here
we are here we are it was pretty obvious
what they were doing and an 11 interest
rate Rises later we're still wondering
at what point does this all end but
anyway this is the point this is the
chart pay close attention you could see
what has
happened just looking at it up until
this point comparing all the different
sectors which sector has performed very
well over the last few months you see
that black line that's energy energy has
done very well so while everybody's so
focused on a Nidia stock we will
continue to bring up this important
statistic and that is money market fund
assets that's the green line because
people are going to get 5% Plus in a
money market fund and yet the banks the
deposits have been stagnant since
earlier this year since late March we
have not seen that move and why well
that number one that's hurting the banks
because they're saying uhoh we got to
attract more how are we going to do that
we can't because we're not going to be
able to offer five six% to get that in
we're going to struggle and so they
can't loan out more they can't do what
they want to do and so this is a big
concern and I think underlying all of
this the banks are still in trouble what
we see overall is that the the reserves
and the stock market they're they're you
know they go along with each other but
that really you know a few months ago
was a big difference in between the two
and I was saying over over and over
again to my mentorship group I was
saying watch this watch this these will
converge and look at where we're at we
have certain indicators that are I don't
want to say bulletproof or foolproof but
my goodness are they accurate so keep
your eye on the very select few that
have really good track records what's
going on with the retail investor well
at this time you could see what they're
focusing on and I thought that was odd
that the number one thing was dividend
investing by the way AI is number two
the average person um you know what
they're most interested in is attracting
yield and right now dividends in the
market not very attractive if I'm going
for dividends I would like if that's
what I want I want that that quarterly
income for instance why wouldn't I go to
a you know a bond right now if I'm just
going to that's what I'm going after
because the yields are are significantly
higher usually in the bond market and
that's what there's a there's a
disparity going on right now just keep
that in mind Apple's list of challenges
in China appears to be growing the
country is tightening restrictions on
the App Store that would eliminate a
popular loophole China accounted for
billions in revenue for Apple last year
and so this is important if you're an
investor in apple the Chinese market is
key 95% of the production of majority of
Apple products are done inside of China
know the exposure of that company to
other markets whether it's China or or
what have you because that disruption
could actually have a material impact on
the stock itself and and then very last
thing we need to look at what you can do
few things follow the smart money bonds
are saying to take their your foot off
of the gas right now you got to watch
out you've got to be very careful and
that doesn't mean put your foot on The
Brak and throw all your money in your
bunker and hide down there it just
simply means whoa watch out let's be
careful let's use a more cautious
approach being mindful of a company or
business exposure to risk and so we see
that with China specifically as we just
talked about a moment ago this goes for
anything watch where they're getting
their raw materials where they getting
their finished products from if you your
individual business is heavily exposed
you've got to watch that as well okay
don't get stuck in a belief system
challenge yourself I know a lot of
people that get on a bandwagon they just
get into this whole thing you know
cheerleading and all that no no no
challenge everything question everything
okay very important stuff I hope you
appreciate that and if you want to the
whole deal and you want to understand
the everything about the financial
system and really understanding
Financial education head over to my
website it's totally free so this is
what you'll see when you go to the money
gps.com and that button on the left side
there it says Compass so when you click
on compass you're going to get these you
know 20 videos or 10 videos whatever it
is you're going to go through you're
going to click on those and you're going
to be educated in such a simple and easy
tolearn Manner and then you could share
that with your friends and family okay
there's no pay wall there's no email
there's no ads nothing just go in there
learn and I'm sure you will appreciate
this okay comment of the day all right
thank you very much feather for this
I got a grim Revelation that the
majority of people are already
completely broke as of now I went to get
money out from one of my accounts it had
$2,500 and the teller remarked wow
you're quite the saver I personally
don't think that 2500 is a large sum of
money but evidently most people have
much less than that in their accounts
this is state of of people where they
just don't have savings they don't have
enough left at the end of the day so
that's why we need to take action we
need to do what we can as best we can
all right I appreciate you being here
today I appreciate you dealing with my
voice we got a few more days of this
hopefully and I want to thank you for
being here I'll see you on the next one
take care